Good one. That was harder than the first
set, of course. But that's uh two out of
two uh two out of two sets. Um yeah. Um
now let's do some accessories.
I saw you were holding like that. Oh,
you want to know my grip? Ah, why didn't
I say so? Why didn't I say so? I'm going
to tell you about the grip position.
Let's check this out. So, for me, here's
a rule that everyone can follow right
now. If you don't know how to arch and
pull your shoulder blades back, do not
use the maximum wide grip. Okay? So,
that's the maximum wide grip. This is a
powerlifting bar, right? Those lines
here, this is the rule in powerlifting.
You're not allowed to go outside of
those. So if the ref can see those
lines, you're too wide. All right. So
that's the maximum legal width grip.
I've got a good arch and I'm I've
developed strength in that position and
it's comfortable for me to press there.
But if you're not arching, look at the
difference in position. This is me
arching. This is me not arching. Okay?
So that's uncomfortable, right? So if
you're not arching, you're not pulling
your shoulder blades back. Do not go
wide. Right? So I am. So I do go wide.
Now here's the next thing. Where do I
hold it in my hand? Well, let's have a
look at the anatomy of the hand. Think
about this. If I was in a martial arts
fight, basin style. I don't know if you
know, you know. Pancration fighter, palm
strikes. If you're going to palm strike
somebody, what part of the hand do you
want to do that with? Do you want to do
that with your fingertips? No. You'll
probably break it. You want to do it any
other part? No. That's all weak except
for right here in line with the bones of
your forearms. Okay. So, right there.
So, that's actually what some people
consider to be the strongest grip. But
look at where my thumb is to be able to
do that. This is also known as a false
grip. Okay? So, this is what some people
consider to be the strongest, and I
agree because it's stacked on the
strongest bones of your forearms, right?
But the problem with that is because
your thumb isn't wrapped around the
barbell, uh, it's not as secure and it
can potentially roll out of your hands.
So, that's why in competition, it used
to be compulsory to rub the thumb out of
your hand. I believe not anymore. But
either way, that's still what I
practice. Now, when you wrap the thumb
around the barbell, it will change the
angle in which you hold the barbell. So,
when the thumb is around, you can't hold
it over two of those two bones there.
So, when you wrap the thumb, so check
this out. So, look at my hand position.
That's over the two bones. When I wrap
my thumb around, I have to internally
rotate my internally rotate my hand.
Right? Remember the position that I said
of the shoulders? It's external rotation
of the shoulders.
Do you get it? So, it's takes
coordination to internally rotate the
hand, but externally rotate the
shoulder. So, that's what I'm going to
be doing now. That's is how I think
about it. Internally rotate the hand
placing the barbell only on one of the
bones. Okay? So, that bone there is
called the ulna. Okay? Not so much the
radius, but that's totally fine.
Internally rotate the hand, wrap the
thumb around it, externally rotate the
humorris. Okay? Now, have a look at this
position. My hands internally rotated.
That is how bulldogs stand. So that's
why it's also been named the bulldog
grip bench press. Okay. So that's the
bulldog grip, right? Um yeah. So that's
my grip position. And that's what I
recommend everyone does with the bench
press. Hold it in line with the
strongest parts of your hand, which is
in line with those bones there. And if
you wrap the thumb around, but there
needs to be slight internal rotation.
But don't do that without externally
rotating that bone. And that's how you
hold the bench press when you want to
bench press the most amount of weight
possible.
Next up, accessories. Let's go.